# Short Unique Identifiers (SUIDs)

## Goals

### Unique

The ID itself needs to have a large enough keyspace to be truly unique for large
systems. In this case, we can rely on the same assumptions that went into the
UUID spec (RFC-4122)

### Short (enough)

It should be shorter than UUIDs, without sacrificing other aspects (e.g.,
uniqueness as noted above).

### Easily shared

It should be difficult for human error to garble an ID. This means things like
lower-case L and capital I characters are points of concern.

### Easily generated

It shouldn't be complicated or resource intensive to generate an identifier.

### Unpredictable

It should be difficult, given an existing identifier, to predict the
identifier that will be generated next.

### Typed and/or namespaced

It should be easy to identify the "resource type" being identified given some
context about the system. For example, AWS's `i9876543` conveys an identifier
for an EC2 instance (denoted by the `i` prefix).

### Easy to validate

A typo or other mistake in an identifier should be identifiable. In other words,
there should be a difference between "That ID is valid but we don't know of a
resource with that ID" and "That ID isn't valid for any resource".

### Customizable

It should be possible to control many of these aspects through parameters. For
example, it should be possible to limit the keyspace, change the available
characters, or change the checksum length or method.

## Implementation

### Keyspace size

SUIDs should allow all possible values from 0 to 2^128.

### Encoding format

By default, SUIDs should use Base-58, consisting of the following characters:

`123456789ABCDEFGHJKLMNPQRSTUVWXYZabcdefghijkmnopqrstuvwxyz`

### Checksum

Options:

- longitudinal parity check
- CRC
- Fletcher's
- Adler-32
- Hamming codes
- RFC-791

## Example code

```
>>> suid = SuidGenerator(prefix='i', size=10, checksum='crc32')
>>> print(suid.suid())
'i-YUHwvGyTcB-2qWW7S'
```

Maybe we could shorten the checksum portion?
'i-YUHwvGyTcB-2q'

Would put